| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-193 |New protocol bridge| Draft | mrbreakout |Change protocol bridge from Celer to Across|  | 2024-01-11
 
## Simple Summary
Change official protocol bridge from Celer to Across

## Rationale
Thales protocol is using Celer for its official bridge since the inception. 
Due to Celer's recent geolocation restrictions, good amount of Thales users are unable to transfer assets from one chain to another.
This issue cause major friction for users who want to move between chains and hence thales protocol desperately need a new bridge. 

Across is well known low fee, fast and reasonable bridge partner we could move on with. 
it is around for quite long time and battle tested enough to achieve trust level. 
More importantly they are not using geolocation or any other restriction for their users.

## Motivation
- Celer bridge geolocation restriction is too strict and cover a lot of countries (even the countries in gray area)
- There is no way to bypass Celer geolocation restriction for its users. Even VPN IPs are blocked.
- Above points cause major friction to a point that users needs to share their wallet address with team members to complete bridge txs
- Across is known with its smooth, cheap, fast and dependable bridge solution and it looks like the best candidate we can work with.


## Specification
This TIP entails the Thales Protocol DAO to remove LP from Celer bridge and deposit into Across bridge

## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
