| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-123 | Grant funding for an alternative Overtime dApp | Draft | cyberduck (@acyberduck) | Fund a grant to kickstart the creation of an alternative Overtime dApp | https://discord.gg/thales | 2023-2-14
 
## Simple Summary

This TIP proposes to provide a grant to kickstart the creation of an alternative Overtime dApp 

## Scope & Motivation

The dApp will be built on top of the Overtime markets protocol, providing new functionalities as well as an alternative front-end to buying positions on Overtime markets. The dApp will act solely as a referral to Overtime markets protocol. 

In addition to being an alternative frtonend, the goal of this dApp is to also enable sports enthusiasts to copy successful sport market tipsters, either on a ticket level or as a vault-based strategy, with the latter being a future iteration of the dApp. 

In the first phase, to be funded by the grant provided in this proposal, the project team intends to create a platform that allows sports enthusiasts to not only place tickets, but to also copy single positions of their favorite sport market tipsters. The platform will include a rating system of tipsters based on their past positions along with some analytics. 

The dAPP will provide the following functionality:
- Browse markets, select positions for a ticket, purchase ticket and allow claiming of winnings
- View existing open tickets by other Overtime tipsters
- Copy positions on existing open tickets for purchase
- Score (rank) existing tipster (analytics)
- Provide wallet overview dashboard with existing and closed tickets

## Value to Thales

This dApp presents two immediate advantages: 

first being the contribution to the decentralization of the protocol’s front-end by offering an alternative, 

second being the referral of trading volume leading to increased protocol revenues for the Thales DAO. 

## Proposer Background

Proposer is a team built from two experienced development & marketing agencies, where the project owners have a multi-year web3 investment experience as well as DAO presence.

One of the project owners, cyberduck, is also currently a Thales council member. 

## Delivery Time

Aspiration is to deliver the full scope of the working dApp by the end of Q2 / 2023, with a pre-alpha release with MVP functionality prior to that. 

## Funding Request

30,000 $OP
Optimism multisig wallet: 0xA783cd79E40d55aED830a51c553AefeBe19cC80F


## Final Notes

Aim is to have a self-funding project from referral fees, which will be used to fund maintenance and upgrades to the project. 

Upon release, the project team will remain the interim owner of the dApp, leading further growth and allocation of the funds raised through the referral fee until a decision on future ownership (i.e. decentralization) by the project team is made. 

More on the project can be found in the attached presentation: [here](assets/grant_alternative_overtime_app.pdf)

## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.

