
| id      | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-154 | Incentivize TIP submissions | Draft | Svenska (@svenskafr) | Incentivize community members for TIP submissions | [Discord](https://discord.gg/thales) | 2023-07-11

## Simple Summary
This TIP proposes to incentivize new TIP submissons with THALES tokens.

## Abstract
Currently, the Thales Improvement Proposal (TIP) [creation process](https://medium.com/@Thales.Academy/how-to-use-github-to-submit-a-tip-e7d0047b54fd) requires several prerequisites (Github account, formalization according to a precise template) and can be time-consuming for each author.

Meanwhile, less than 5% of TIPs are created by members who have never been on an elected council or CC.

## Motivation
To encourage all members of Thales community to submit evolutions via TIPs, I'm proposing to incentivize TIPs created and voted in by Thales Council.

This proposal is inspired by what [Kwenta does](https://github.com/Kwenta/kwenta-state-log/blob/master/sections/1.md#kip-completion-incentives).

## Specification
Authors of TIPs are eligible for THALES rewards for having TIPs voted in. Once a TIP has been voted in with 5/7 (or 7/7 if meta governance) YES votes, the author is elligible for 500 USD worth of THALES distributed via Treasury.

Treasury can use the distribution method of its choice, either by using Discord TipBot or by sending it to the address provided by the author(s). 

THALES equivalent of 500 USD is calculated at the time the incentive is sent, based on the current rate from a reputable source chosen by Treasury.

Parameter change TIPs and similarly trivial TIPs are excluded from this incentive program.
Non-exhaustive list of parameter changes TIPs:
- Buyback & Burn frequency or pause/unpause
- Gating ratio for LP on Overtime & Thales AMM
- Incentives for token LPers on Arrakis/Velo/Camelot

Because new TIPs are often closely related to their duties, Core Contributors (CCs) and current elected Council members are not eligible for this incentive.

If a TIP has multiple authors, incentives will be equally distributed (e.g. a TIP with two authors would be split 50/50, so 250 USD worth of THALES each).

Should this TIP pass, it will not be retroactive, so that only future TIPs voted in will be eligible to this incentive program.

## Rationale
N/A

## Test Cases
N/A

## Implementation
N/A

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
