| ID      | Title                               | Status | Author | Description                                                                                   | Discussions To                            | Created     |
|---------|-------------------------------------|--------|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-------------|
| OIP-245 | Transition from TIP to OIP | Draft  | @RealBigPenny   | Formally transition governance from Thales and TIPs to Overtime and OIPs                      | [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/overtime-io) | 2025-06-18 |

## Simple Summary

This OIP proposes to declare all past TIPs to be treated as OIPs, mandates that all mentiones of TIP and TIPs to be read as OIP and OIPs and to mandate the usage of OIPs going forward. It also proposes that all mentions of Thales and its variants (e.g. Thales community) to be treated as Overtime.

## Abstract

While in practice governance has already started to work with OIPs, formally there is no governance decision to support this practice. Also the transition from Thales to Overtime has created some legal ambiguity since TIPs and everything that was governed under them is, according to TIP-1, directed at the Thales community. This OIP will remedy all ambuguity and formal issues which where intruduced by the transition from Thales to Overtime and establish a robust and sound governance based on the already existing and proven framework.

## Motivation

The change from Thales to Overtime has created legal ambiguity since TIPs formally do not apply to Overtime. Instead of building governance anwew from ground up, it is more reasonable and efficient to continue building upon what has been already created and proven reliable for many years. This OIP will create the legal (governance) basis for what is already lived practive in the Overtime community, as can be seen by the organic usage of OIPs instead of TIPs.

## Specification

- All instances and mentions of TIP and TIPs will retroactively be treated as OIP and OIPs respectively.
- All instances of Thales and any variant of it (e.g. Thales community) will retroactively be treated as Overtime and its corresponding variant respectively.
- All current and future Improvement Proposals will be called Overtime Improvement Proposals (OIP).


## Rationale

- **Coherence**: Harmonizing terminology avoids ambiguity in governance.
- **Efficiency**: Building on an already existing and proven framework preserves past efforts.
- **Applicability**: Ensuring that past and future governance is valid

## Test Cases

n/a

## Implementation

Passing this OIP ensures that past and future governance decisions are de jure applicable to Overtime. No other changes must be made.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.


