| ID      | Title                               | Status | Author | Description                                                                                   | Discussions To                            | Created     |
|---------|-------------------------------------|--------|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-------------|
| OIP-246 | Sunset Thalesmarkets | Draft  | @RealBigPenny  | Sunset all Thalesmarkets offerings            							  | [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/overtime-io) | 2025-06-18 |

## Simple Summary

This OIP proposes to sunset all products and services which are offered under the Thalesmarkets brand.

## Abstract

Thalesmarkets is suffering from bad performance, lack of interest and toxic flow for a long time. The decision to move from Thales to Overtimes was rooted in the realization that having a brand tied to an objectively less popular and increasingly unprofitable venture is detrimental. As time has moved on, the Thalesmarket situation has not martially improved and it is currently run on a "half depricated" or "maintenance mode" basis. This OIP sunsets Thalesmarkets and all offerings under its brand to end toxic flow, reduce risk and free up CC resources.

## Motivation

Thalesmarkets is an unprofitable and unpopular product that poses financial risks to the Overtime community. Basically rejected by its own community, it has been kept alive on a "maintenance mode" basis during the transitional period from Thales to Overtime. However, without any signs of material improvement and Core Contributors being at capacity developing and running Overtime, there is no reason to invest resources, even trivial amounts, to keep it running. Sunsetting Thalesmarkets will free up CC resources, reduce risk and stop the bleeding of treasury/community funds.

## Specification

Sunsetting Thalesmarkets and all offering under its brand:

- Stop deposits to the Thalesmarkets USDC LP and only allow withdrawals.
- Stop buy ins of UP, DOWN, IN and OUT positions for both BTC and ETH.
- Stop offering new Strike prices past 04.07.2025.

## Rationale

- **Sustainability**: Stops loss of money and thus increases treasury runway.
- **Risk Reduction**: Reduces risk to community and treasury funds from toxic flow.
- **Efficiency**: Allows CCs to focus exclusively on popular and profitable offerings.

## Test Cases

n/a

## Implementation

To be determined by pDAO.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
