| id    | Title | Status      | Author  | Description | Discussions to | Created    |
| ----- | ----- | ----------- | ------- | ----------- | -------------- | ---------- |
| TIP-158 | Start to Deflationary Thales | Draft | fhd | Start to Deflationary Thales | [discord](https://discord.gg/thales) | 2023-07-31 |

## Simple Summary

This TIP proposes to:
1. Eliminate all Thales Emissions towards incentivizing liquidity.
2. Give Thales/ETH UNI-V2 providers a `5:1` Ratio (same as staked Thales) allocation to AMM's based on Thales amount in UNI-V2 LP
3. Create a new variable DaoFee, `25%` that takes a portion of AMM profit that will be sent to SafeBox for Buyback and Burn

## Abstract

Thales is on its way to becoming a revenue generating asset. As such, we no longer need to incentivize liquidity as we have before. We can simply give Thales/Eth LP'ers an allocation to our AMM's. 

This should be another option to get into the AMM's - Thales/Eth will be a safer way for users to enter the AMM's. In return for not taking on as much risk in order to gain an allocation, Thales/Eth providers will not earn any Thales emissions.

So Thales Stakers will have:
1. `5:1` Allocation
2. Thales Staking Apr and Gamified Staking APR

Thales/Eth Stakers will have:
1. `5:1` Allocation
2. The swap fees from their UNI-V2 Positions


  ### This method is also future proof:

When we ungate the AMM's, we can simply allocate `X%` profit from AMM's to Thales Stakers, `Y%` profit from AMM's to Thales/Eth Providers, and `Z%` profit to everyone actually deposited in the AMMs.

The DaoFee will take `25%` of profit on each positive round on each AMM. The new DaoFee will increase the rate of buyback and burn. This fee is to become direct revenue distribution instead of BBB when revenues are more substantial.

## Motivation

Less Inflation == Better Tokenomics

## Specification

Create a new staking contract for Thales/ETH LP Tokens.

The Contract is to:
1. Have a 1 week unlock period, the same as Thales Staking
2. Create an allocation, 5:1, based on the number of Thales in the UNI-V2 LP at the beginning of each week
3. Gain no staking emissions

Create a new DaoFee for AMM rounds.

## Implementation

TBD

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
