| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-195 | Optional auto compounding | Draft | BigPenny | Add an optional compounding feature to the token page | https://discord.gg/thales | 2024-01-25


## Simple Summary

Allow stakers at the click of a button to claim and then automatically compound their stablecoin rewards into $THALES

## Abstract

This TIP proposes to add an optional compounding feature to the token page. Stakers will have the option to claim their $THALES and then automatically swap all stablecoin rewards into $THALES and restake them.
  
## Motivation
 
With the introduction of fee share a new meta strategy has emerged where some stakers use their stablecoin rewards to buy additional $THALES and stake it to increase their future rewards. In short: They compound their rewards. Several stakers have asked for ideas how to adopt this strategy in the most efficent way and an auto compounding feature would accomodate that strategy very well.

## Specification 

Add a second button to the token page, next to the "claim" button named "compound" which sends $THALES rewards to escrow as normal but in addition to that automatically swaps all stablecoin rewards for $THALES tokens and stakes those on the staking contract. The compounding feature should be possible to automate via 3rd party services, the same way normal claiming can be automated.

This TIP leaves it up to pDAO discrecion where and how stablecoin rewards are sold for $THALES, especially which DEX(es) are used, what slippage is acceptable and how to proceed if a swap fails.

## Implementation

n/a

## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
