| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-130 | Add OpticOdds as a data provider to Overtime| Draft |  (@scvija) | Add New OpticOdds node to support live markets|  | 2024-05-21

## Simple Summary
This tip entitles Thales protocol to leverage [OpticOdds](https://opticodds.com/) Chainlink node to Overtime and support new sports and market types, but mostly as a means to enable Overtime live markets.

## Motivation
Overtime aims to constantly increase the supply of new sports and markets. When we look back, Overtime started with just 2 sports and just moneyline markets, and right now around 15 sports are supported, not to mention many different market types such as spreads, totals, double chances and many different player props.

One thing our users have been constantling asking for is live markets, but due to the limitations of the nature of blockchain itself and the limiting factors of the architecture in v1 of Overtime, it was not an option right away. 

With the new architecture, this is all coming in place (more information in [TIP-203](TIP-203.md) and [TIP-143](TIP-143.md))

After talks with the OpticOdds team and tesing OpticOdds Sports Data provider we propose using it on Overtime. OpticOdds has a diverse offering of sports markets, and most importantly, it has a robust solution for their live offering, which has been tested for quite some time now. The initial amount of live markets we will be offering will be somewhat limited, just to allow for everything to be checked while it is production, and after that we expect a gradual increase in the offering.



## Specification

OpticOdds has a diverse offering of sports and market types, most importantly for Overtime, they have a live markets offering. The plan is to incorporate live markets slowing, ensuring the quality of the feeds once again. After that, an expansion of the offering is planned.
[OpticOdds ](https://opticodds.com/)

[Sports betting API ](https://opticodds.com/sports-betting-api/)  


This TIP entitles Protocol DAO to utilize other available market types and sports from OpticOdds if there is community interest for those and protocol DAO finds those safe to add. Protocol DAO retains the right to choose which sports and markets to offer from the currently supported provides and change them ad hoc.


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
