| id      | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-241 | Implement an expiry period for Freebets | Draft | Svenska (0xsvenska) | Implement an expiry period for Freebets| [Discord](https://discord.gg/thales) | 2025-02-17

## Simple Summary
This TIP proposes to implement a 4-week (~1 month) expiration period for freebets distributed in multiple collaterals (THALES/OVER, OP, ARB, etc.) by Overtime, introduced with [TIP-208](https://github.com/thales-markets/thales-improvement-proposals/blob/main/TIPs/TIP-208.md). 

Currently, freebets do not have a usage deadline, leading to unnecessary capital being locked in proxy contracts indefinitely.

## Motivation
The absence of an expiration period for freebets results in inefficiencies, as unused funds remain idle in proxy contracts. 

Introducing a time limit will:
- Encourage users to engage with the platform actively and use their freebets in a timely manner
- Prevent excessive accumulation of unclaimed funds
- Allows unused funds to be reallocated for potential distribution of new freebets to other users

## Specification
Expiration Period: Freebet balance will expire 4 weeks after last funding date.

Therefore, if a user's freebets balance is not used within 4 weeks after the last funding date, funds will be removed from the user's proxy contract and returned to Treasury.

Existing freebets in user proxy contracts will also be subject to the 4-week rule, using this TIP implementation release date given last funding date won't be available yet.

## Rationale
This 4-week expiration period simplifies user experience and expectations while ensuring that freebet funds do not remain idle indefinitely. 
By reclaiming unused freebets, Overtime can reallocate these resources more effectively, potentially issuing new freebets to incentivize other users.

## Implementation
- Implement a last funding date timestamp
- Periodically check all freebet balances that were funded at least 4 weeks ago, and transfer the idle funds using _removeUserFunding from https://github.com/thales-markets/contracts-v2/blob/main/contracts/core/FreeBets/FreeBetsHolder.sol
- If the last funding date is not available, use the TIP implementation date.

## Test Cases
N/A

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
