| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-143 | Thales AMM spread reductions| Danijel | Thales AMM spread reductions | https://discord.gg/thales | 2023-05-07

## Simple Summary

This TIP proposes to set maximum possible discount to always be at the same level as the skew on the other side, effectively greatly reducing the spread and improving trading UX.  

## Motivation

With a full revamp of Thales AMM products, opening up ThalesAMM for liquidity providing and reintroduction of trading rewards, we want to attract traders and volume. We have initially set the discount to be half of the skew incurred on one of the sides of a positional market, but after running Overtime AMM for a while with the config of discount equal to skew, I believe we can do the same for ThalesAMM which in return would offer much better payouts to traders that balance the AMM.  

I am also proposing to set the SafeBox fee to 1% from the current value of 2% to have it the same as for Overtime and further improve the UX. 

Lastly, I am proposing a change to RangedMarketsAMM that would reduce the RangedAMM fee from 3% to 1%, and SafeBox fee from 1% to 0.1% sa RangedAMM already pays SafeBox fees via ThalesAMM. This will be compensated by reducing the fees that the RangedMarkes pay ThalesAMM, which was enabled with TIP-139.  

All of these combined should offer much better trading UX.
  
## Specification

Set discount value on the imbalanced side to the value of current skew on the side in greater demand.  
Set SafeBox fee to 1% for ThalesAMM.  
Set SafeBox fee to 0.1% for RangedAMM.  
Set RangedAMM fee from 3% to 1%.

## Implementation
TBD

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.


