| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-126 | Reduce SafeBox fee parameter by fixed **-1%** across all products | Draft | padzank (@padzank) | Reduce SafeBox fee parameter by fixed **-1%** across all products and all networks | https://discord.gg/thales | 2023-2-16

## Simple Summary

Reduce SportsAMM, ParlayAMM and ThalesAMM contracts SafeBox fee to **2%** from existing 3% on all networks to enhance UX and the odds competitiveness.

## Abstract

To increase the odds competitiveness and UX, this TIP proposes to reduce the SafeBox fee from 3% to **2%** on SportsAMM, ParlayAMM and ThalesAMM contracts and to reduce the RangedAMM fee from 2% to 1% across all supported networks.

## Motivation

The performance of the ThalesAMM and the SportsAMM in recent times was sufficiently good to justify a gradual rebalancing of conservative risk parameters to more inviting environment for traders and better UX.  

With reducing the SafeBox fee from 3% to 2% for ThalesAMM and complement by reducing the RangedAMM fee from 2% to 1%, spread of Thales crypto markets will be tighter and more inviting towards option traders. As the case with Overtime markets, larger spread and fees were justified with the presence of OP rewards for traders that effectively cushioned the impact on UX. With uncertainty of continuation of OP rewards, it is important to not rely on this cushion and gradually improve the UX.  

With the deployment of Fee Rebates program for Overtime on Optimism Network, it allowed for increase of SafeBox fee to 3% since all users were refunded the majority of it every two weeks in OP+THALES tokens, but it also had an effect of Overtime product having less competitive odds. To increase the runway of Fee Rebates program on Optimism further and to invite more users by providing more competitive odds across Optimism and Arbitrum deployments, this TIP proposes to reduce the SafeBox fee from 3% to **2%** across networks.

## Specification

This TIP entails the Thales Protocol DAO to set the SafeBox fee percentage to `**2%**` on ThalesAMM,SportsAMM and ParlayAMM instances on all network deployments. This TIP also entails the Thales Protocol DAO to set the RangedAMM fee from 2% to 1%.

## Variables

N/A

## Implementation


## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0. 