| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-134 | Add Same Game Parlays concept to Overtime| Draft | Danijel (@danthales), KirilA | Add SGP to Overtime| https://discord.gg/thales | 2023-03-17


## Simple Summary

This TIP proposes to add the concept ot Same Game Parlay as a special position within ParlayAMM

## Abstract

Same Game Parlays entail combining the outcome of a game in terms of winner and points/goals scored. From the end user perspective composing these two positions is seemless and acts as a single position. This TIP proposes a technical approach on how these same game parlay positions can be included into Parlay AMM contract.
  
## Motivation

Same Game Parlays are a very popular time of positioning across web2 books. Example positions are combining the match winner and Under/Over points or goals position.   
Sport books usually have dedicated odds for these special parlay types, but for Overtime, we are proposing a solution that taps into existing Parlay and Singles architecture to dinamically allow combining such positions with the odds calculated on a smart contract level.  

From the backend perspective, Parlay AMM will receive a SGP much like it would receive two decoupled positions on a same game. It would then detect that this is a SGP, run validation that its an allowed SGP (e.g. match winner plus totals combo) and apply a SGP fee which depends on the sport to the odds multiplication.  

A SGP position on the ParlayAMM counts as two individual positions in terms of parlay limits, so if the limit is 8 positions, a max of 4 SGP can be put on a ticket.  

Parlay AMM will collaterize a ticket with SGP as if those were two individual positions put on a parlay, so everything else works exactly the same as laid out in [TIP-72](https://github.com/thales-markets/thales-improvement-proposals/blob/main/TIPs/TIP-72.md) 

## Specification 

Add SGP concept into the Parlay AMM contract as laid out in Motivation section.  
Allowed combinations are moneyline or handicap winner with the total points/goals. 
For soccer not all total combinations will be supported, as there is high correlation between some combinations (e.g. under 2 goals and draw).  

Protocol DAO will list sports and combinations as it deems those ready in a iterative fashion. Basketball would be the first to be supported, with more sports added as we capture and are content with volume and PnL metrics.        

## Variables  

SGPfeePerSport:
- Basketball 5%  
- American Football 10%  
- Hockey 15%  
- Soccer 30%  

## Examples  

An NBA game had the following odds:  

Moneyline  
Home Team 1.8x  
Away Team 2.2x  

Handicap  
Home Team (-2) 2x  
Away Team (+2) 2x  

Total points  
Under 200 points 2x  
Over 200 points 2x  

The following SGP combors are supported:  
1. Home Team and Under 200   
2. Home Team and Over 200   
3. Away Team and Under 200  
4. Away Team and Over 200  
5. Home Team (-2) and Under 200   
6. Home Team (-2) and Over 200  
7. Away Team (+2) and Under 200  
8. Away Team (+2) and Over 200

Not supported SGP combors:
1. Home Team and Home Team (-2)
2. Away Team and Away Team (+2)

The odds for each combination will be calculating by multiplying the individual position odds and adding the SGPFee for NBA which is proposed at 5%.  
So e.g. Odds for "Home Team (-2) and Under 200" are 2 x 2 x 0.95 = 3.8x

## Implementation

TBD

## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
