
| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-187 | Introduce Skew Impact to Speed Markets | Draft | padzank | Introduce Skew Impact to Speed Markets |  | 2023-11-17
 
## Simple Summary

Introduce Skew Impact to Speed Markets to improve risk management and efficiency


## Abstract

Currently on SpeedMarketsAMM, there are fixed LP fees for all created markets depending on the chosen Strike Time.  
  
This TIP proposes to introduce a dynamic Skew Impact to Speed Markets that will incur a premium on base LP Fees depending on the amount of Open Interest skew at any given moment per asset.

## Motivation

With the continuing growth of Speed Markets key metrics, risk management of the product needs to adapt and evolve with it to ensure the product is as scalable as possible.  
  
By carefully observing the performance of Speed Markets during certain market conditions, it has become evident that during specific timeframes of low volatility there needs to be dynamic adaptations of pricing. Probabilities of short term BTC and ETH price movements from specific support and resistance levels become skewed more than what would a fixed LP fee entail.  
  
For this reason, introducing a dynamic Skew Impact premium based on Open Interest skew per asset actively balances the SpeedMarketsAMM risk and increases the efficiency and scalability of the Speed Markets LP pool.  
  
 Initially, it is proposed to set the new Skew Impact max limit to `5%`. The Skew Impact should grow linearly from `0%` to `5%` proportional to `maxRiskPerAssetAndPosition`. As the performance is monitored, this new risk management tool will be adapted accordingly.  


## Specification
 
This TIP entails the Thales Protocol DAO to implement a Skew Impact mechanism on the SpeedMarketsAMM contract with the following parameters:  

- Base LP fee to have a premium based on current Skew Impact parameter for chosen Asset and Direction
- Max Skew Impact = `5%`
- Skew Impact is determined by distance of `maxRiskPerAssetAndPosition` to it's max value
- Skew Impact is priced on market creation

## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
