| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-206 | ETH as supported collateral | Draft | Cvija (@scvija) | Add ETH as a supported collateral for V2 | https://discord.gg/thales | 2024-05-21


## Simple Summary

Add ETH as a supported collateral for Overtime v2

## Abstract

This TIP proposes the addition of **ETH** as a supported collateral for Overtime.


## Motivation
 

Overtime went live in July 2021, and since the inception, using stablecoins for trading has been the main idea and the preffered way. Even when the support for other collaterals like ETH, WETH, OP, ARB has been added, the trades were still **denominated in sUSD/USDC**, depending on the network. The buy-in was swapped atomically as a part of the transaction into sUSD/USDC, and the payout itself was to be claimed in stables also.

Trading directly with ETH was something the users have been asking for regularly, but only after the the switch to the new **[Overtime v2 architecture](TIP-203.md)** this is finally possible.
Using ETH has a few benefits. It is completely **uncensorable**, which means that you funds cannot be frozen by any entity, nor can your address be blacklisted for trading it.

If you are a new user of Overtime, or a new crypto user in general, and want to place your first trade on Overtime, right now you need to have *both a stablecoin and ETH for gas*(unless you figure out that you can change the collateral). With this implementation, ETH would be all you need to start your trading journey on Overtime.

Talking about intangibles, ETH is THE native currency of the whole Ethereum network, all L2 and THE currency of DeFi in general, so supporting it natively seems only natural

ETH will have its own **dedicated collateral pool,** independent from any stablecoin pools. There will be *no swapping* going on in the background, and the payout itself will also be settled in ETH. So if you have placed a trade for 1 ETH with a quote of 2, you payout will be exactly 2 ETH.

If you are an ETH maxi and think that the opportunity cost of swapping out of ETH is too high, you can place your trades and ETH can still appreaciate while it is locked and waiting for you to claim it after your win.


## Specification 

Create a new collateral pool for Overtime v2 this is using exclusively ETH. Both buy-ins and payouts will be settled in ETH.



## Implementation

https://github.com/thales-markets/contracts-v2

## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
