| id    | Title | Status      | Author  | Description | Discussions to | Created    |
| ----- | ----- | ----------- | ------- | ----------- | -------------- | ---------- |
| TIP-180 | Chainlink CCIP for cross-chain staking rewards | Draft | kirila | Use CCIP to distribute staking rewards to all users cross-chain | [discordlink ](https://discord.gg/thales)   | 2023-11-08 |

## Simple Summary

This proposal suggests using Chainlink Cross-Chain Interoperability Protocol (CCIP) to distribute the staking rewards on all chains.

## Abstract

This proposal aims to provide stakers more balanced rewards accross all chains by unifying all the dedicated-per-chain rewards into a total-cross-chain rewards.  
At the end of a staking period, the Chainlink Cross-Chain Interoperability Protocol (CCIP) is used to distribute the total rewards across all chains.

## Motivation

Currently the staking rewards on every chain (Optimism, Arbitrum, and Base) are distributed independently.  
Each chain has different base and extra rewards per week.  
Stakers on one chain may receive less rewards for the equal amount of staked THALES and gamefied points compared to other stakers on different chains.  

In order to adjust for more balanced rewards, this TIP suggest unifying the emited (base and extra) rewards from all chains into a single pool of (base and extra) rewards.  
For example, if the base rewards are *X* THALES on Optimism and *Y* THALES on Base, the total base rewards would be ( *X* + *Y* ) THALES. A staker on Optimism and a staker on Base with equal staked amount should receive equal base rewards.

Note that this TIP does not account for a staker cross-chain activities or use of Thales protocols. If a staker has a stake on Optimism, it collects gamified points only from the use of Thales and Overtime on Optimism.

The details of the implementation are laid out in the Specification section. 

## Specification

At the end of each staking period these actions are performed to distribute the rewards:

1. *Collecting staking amounts from all chains*: `Staking` contracts from each chain send the total staking amount to a `Collector` contract on the "main" chain (e.g. Optimism) using a CCIP.
2. *Calculating rewards per chain*: the `Collector` contract calculates the rewards per chain based on the total rewards to be distributed and the staked amount per chain.
3. *Distributing rewards per chain*: the `Staking` contract on each chain updates the amount of rewards for the current period. After this amount is updated, stakers can claim the rewards.

Note: the time between the staking period being closed and the stakers being able to claim the rewards depends on the execution time of all 3 steps.  
This can range from 30 minutes to 1 hour.

## Test Cases

### Test Case A

Stake with same amount with two stakers on two different chains.
The received rewards should be equal.


## Implementation

- Collector contract - perform cross-chain updates in the Staking contract

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
