| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-215 |  Automatically Restake Thales Staking Rewards | Draft | stake_stake | Automatically Restake Thales Staking Rewards  | https://discord.gg/thales | 2024-05-20


## Simple Summary

Transition from the current vesting system to automatic restaking of Thales staking rewards..

## Abstract

This TIP seeks to replace the current 10-week vesting system for Thales staking rewards with an automatic restaking mechanism. This change intends to streamline the rewards process by eliminating the complexities of a separate vesting section on the website and escrow system
## Motivation  

The existing vesting system introduces unnecessary complexity to the user experience, potentially discouraging active participation in the rewards program. By transitioning to automatic restaking of rewards, we leverage inherent staking mechanisms, such as cooldown periods, to discourage short-term withdrawal behaviors. This approach not only simplfies the management of rewards but also aligns with Thales's goal of fostering long-term engagement without the need for a separate escrow system, which complicates the overal reward architecture.  

## Specification 

Upon claiming, all rewards will be directly added to the user's existing staked Thales balance.

The existing escrow contract will be deactivated, preventing users from interacting with it. Rewards will no longer be claimable from this contract.

Any rewards held within the escrow contract after deactivation, will be transferred and added to the respective user's staked balances.

## Implementation

To be discussed with engineers upon approval

## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
