| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-152 | Introduce new `minOddsPerSport` variable parameter to the `SportsAMM` contract | Draft | padzank | Introduce a new `minOddsPerSport` variable parameter to the `SportsAMM` contract to be able to offer higher decimal odds for different sports and leagues | https://discord.gg/8bzFdpGTrp | 2022-07-06
 
## Simple Summary
 
Introduce a new `minOddsPerSport` variable parameter to the `SportsAMM` contract to be able to offer higher decimal odds for different sports and leagues.

## Abstract

Until this point, the max possible return on Overtime Markets is capped globally at 20x from Buy-In for all supported sports and leagues. With the product maturing and new offerings popping up, it is safe and beneficial for UX to be able to increase max possible return for specific leagues and sports. This TIP proposes to implement a solution allowing this by introducting `minOddsPerSport` variable parameter to the `SportsAMM` contract.

## Motivation

With new sports and position types being added to Overtime, the need for higher cap on potential return follows it. With the sharpness of odds and the AMM performance proving itself day by day, decreasing minimal implied odds for specific sports and leagues is deemed safe for the AMM and the liquidity pool. By increasing the max potential return cap, there are more offerings available to users that offer higher risk but higher return. It adds to the betterment of UX of Overtime and has a potential to invite more new users to the platform.

## Specification

This TIP entails the Thales Protocol DAO to introduce and implement new `minOddsPerSport` variable parameter to the [`SportsAMM`](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/address/0x170a5714112daEfF20E798B6e92e25B86Ea603C1#writeProxyContract) contract that will allow setting custom minimal supported odds per league or sport by the AMM.
 
## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
 
