| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-143 | Overtime Live Positioning AMM | Danijel | Introduce Overtime Live Positioning AMM | https://discord.gg/thales | 2023-05-07

## Simple Summary

This TIP proposes to implement an AMM solution that enables users to take positions on live games. 

## Motivation

Live markets make for majority of sportbooks volume globally. Blockchains introduce an implicit delays that make such markets quite complex and risky, with the risk factor varying depending on the sport. This proposal introduces the general concept of how this problem can be solved via smart contract and Chainlink on-demand oracles, with sports to support it being determined ad hoc by pDAO.

## Specification

Live AMM will be a decoupled solution to separate the risks of live markets from SportsAMM and ParlayAMM. It will inherit caps management logic from SportsAMM, but will offer a different trading experience.  
The user will signal the intent to make a live trade via a tx that will lock up his intended funds to use and send a request to chainlink node relaying the said intent.  
The node will use the APIs and other data available to it, perhaps even aggregation of the odds, to ensure the trade can go through and send a reply to the Live AMM.   
If the reply is positive, in the same reply transaction the user trade is executed and he has successfully positioned. If the reply is negative, the funds are returned to the user in that transaction. If there is no reply within a minute (a configurable variable), the user can redeem his funds and cancel the intent.  

The Live AMM contract will not need to store any odds or otherwise interact with SportPositionalMarkets. 
There will be a separate contract where all locked collateral will be stored that guarantees payouts. 
Each live trade will be stored directly on the contract as mappings with information about the gameID, position and potential return. To resolve a live market, another request to the Chainlink node needs to be sent. If the position was successfully, the user gets his winning in the response transaction from the collateral contract. If it was losing, the funds are returned from the collateral contract to Live AMM.      


## Variables
TBD

## Implementation
TBD

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.


