

| id      | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-166 | Implement Referral Tier system | Draft | @padzank | Implement a Tier system for referrals where higher tier addresses can get higher referral fees | https://discord.gg/thales | 2023-08-28


## Simple Summary


Implement a Tier system for referrals where chosen higher tier addresses can get higher referral fees and additionally adjust Referral fees to be funnelled exclusively from SafeBox fees and not from the `min_spread` variable (minimal default spread).


## Abstract


Current Referral program works by funnelling 0.5% of `SportsAMM` (`1%` for ThalesAMM) Volume by the referred address as a fee to the referrer address. This TIP proposes to change the referral program so it takes away a percentage of SafeBox fees towards the referrer, instead of a percentage of the `min_spread` variable (minimal default spread). Additionally this TIP proposes to implement a Tier system for Referrals with three categories of Referrers:
 
- Normie Tier: Accruing `0.5%` of Referred Volume. Default for all new referrers.
- Silver Tier: Accruing `0.75%` of Referred Volume. Whitelisted addresses (ambassadors, partners and integrators) determined by Thales Protocol DAO.
- Gold Tier: Accruing `1%` of Referred Volume. Whitelisted addresses (ambassadors, partners and integrators) determined by Thales Protocol DAO.


## Motivation


As the Thales Protocol architecture matured, there was a significant increase in integrations that wished to use Thales contracts (especially `SportsAMM` and `ParlayAMM`) as an engine for their own third party dapps and products. Thales Referral program provides a perfect opportunity to award and incentivize third party integrations and award promotion of Thales suite of products via direct atomic on-chain fee sharing.  
  
**By implementing a tier list, Thales can get into additional ambassadors,parthenships and integrations by whitelisting beneficial third parties to accrue higher percentage of volume they invite or drive through the Thales smart contracts.** Additionally, this development supports large integrators that also rely on the Referral Fee to fund running costs of their end products that have the potential to drive significant volume.

This TIP proposition also entails that from now on the referral fees are taken away from the SafeBox fee towards the referrers, so the end users and liquidity providers in the AMM have the same UX as if without referrals.


## Specification


This TIP entails the Thales Protocol DAO to set `referralFee` architecture to take away from `SafeBox` fee instead of the `min_spread` variable.


This TIP additionally entails the Thales Protocol DAO to set `referralFee` to `0.5%` as default.


This TIP additionally entails the Thales Protocol DAO to implement a function that allows the Thales Protocol DAO to whitelist referrer addresses (at pDAO discretion) so they are included in one of the two additional tier lists:


- Silver Tier: `referralFee` set to `0.75%`
- Gold Tier: `referralFee` set to `1%`
 
## Test Cases
n/a


## Implementation
https://github.com/thales-markets/contracts/tree/opbnb


## Copyright


Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.