| id      | Title                 | Status | Author  | Description               | Discussions to | Created    |
| ------- | --------------------- | ------ | ------- | ------------------------- | -------------- | ---------- |
| TIP-174 | Chained Speed Markets | Draft  | Danijel | Add Chained Speed Markets |                | 2023-10-02 |

## Simple Summary

Add Chained Speed Markets to SpeedMarketsAMM

## Motivation

SpeedMarkets saw massive early success with over 350k in Volume in the first month of running, over 250 unique users and 4000 markets created, with a positive PnL all along.

The initial Speed Markets TIP already mentioned chained speed markets as a concept, but this TIP aims to formalize and nail down the specification for it.

## Specification

A Chained Speed Market can be created with a minimum of 2 consecutive price predictions and a maximum of 6. Both are variables that can be chained.

In a Chained Speed Market the user aims to predict sequential price movements, each relative to the previus one, for a leveraged payout.

The payout multiplier is 1.9x.

Minimum timeframe between markets is 10 minutes.

## Examples

Time is noon UTC. BTC is $30,000 at the time of creation. A user creates a Chained Speed Market with the following prediction:

- UP
- DOWN
- UP
- UP
- DOWN
- DOWN

User buys in with $10. His potential winning is 1.9x to the power of 6 = 47.01x => $470. Timeframe is 10 minutes.

- At 12:10pm price is $30,100. The user has guessed first round correctly. The market proceeds to next round with the new price of $30,100.
- At 12:20pm price is $30,050. The user has guessed second round correctly. The market proceeds to next round with the new price of $30,050.
- At 12:30pm price is $30,030. The user has not guess third round correctly. The market is resolved in favor of the AMM.

## Variables

- minChainedMarkets = 2
- maxChainedMarkets = 6
- payoutMultiplier = 1.9
- minTimeFrameForChainedMarkets = 10 minutes
- maxProfitPerIndividualMarket = $500

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
