| id    | Title | Status      | Author  | Description | Discussions to | Created    |
| ----- | ----- | ----------- | ------- | ----------- | -------------- | ---------- |
| TIP-159 | Optimal Liquidity Strategy on Velodrome | Draft | MΞthodic (@0xmethodic) | Extend LP Incentives on Optimism and distribute equal incentives between Arrakis and Velodrome. | [discord](https://discord.gg/thales) | 2023-08-01 |

## Simple Summary

Extend LP Incentives on Optimism and distribute equal incentives between Arrakis and Velodrome.

## Abstract

This TIP proposes to allocate $300K worth of tokens from Thales’ treasury on OP towards a POL position for THALES/USDC on  Velodrome to capture VELO LP emissions and grow Thales's Protocol Owned Vote power (~5M veVELO).

Thales will also extend THALES/ETH LP rewards on Optimism with the following emissions:
- Arrakis THALES/WETH pool incentives: `1,250 OP` + `18,000 THALES` per week
- Velodrome THALES/USDC pool bribes: `725 OP` + `9,000 THALES` per week
- Velodrome THALES/WETH pool bribes: `725 OP` + `9,000 THALES` per week

These emissions are to run until further revaluation by the Thales Governance Structure.

## Motivation

Velodrome has demonstrated to offer outsized impact from liquidity incentives for Thales. In the past 4 weeks, Velodrome has delivered 3X as much TVL per incentive as Arrakis in Thales pools, attracting a combined $1.8M in TVL (vs. $1.4M in Arrakis) with less than 40% of the liquidity incentives deployed. Through Velodrome's voting system, Thales pools receive $3 in VELO emissions for every $1 Thales allocates in incentives. 

Allocating an equal amount of  incentives between Arrakis and Velodrome can allow Thales to evaluate the performance of both platforms and use the results to make further changes in the future.

Moreover, Thales holds a veNFT with ~5M veVELO, which enables the protocol to earn ~$7K in voting rewards per week (epoch). By deploying POL on Velodrome, Thales can capture a portion of the VELO emissions directed to THALES/USDC, building on Thales' existing incentive program to grow the protocol's veNFT. Adding $300K POL would capture ~$4K in VELO rewards per week at the current 70% average APR.  Locking the VELO will increase Protocol Vote Power and give Thales control of a larger share of the emissions directed to THALES pools and earn the fees captured by the pools.

## Specification

This TIP entails the Thales Protocol DAO and Treasury DAO to facilitate the following emissions and POL changes:
- Arrakis Thales/WETH rewards - `1,250 OP` + `12,000 Thales` per week
- Velodrome Thales/WETH bribes - `725 OP` + `9,000 THALES` per week + `50% veVELO NFT vote`
- Velodrome Thales/USDC bribes - `725 OP` + `9,000 THALES` per week + `50% veVELO NFT vote`
- Deposit and stake `300k of Thales/USDC` POL on Velodrome to capture VELO emissions

VELO Emissions collected with POL will be locked into Thales' veNFT weekly. 

Rewards collected through voting in Velodrome are to be compounded into both pools weekly along with the claim of the veVELO rebase. Fees claimed could also be compounded into additional POL on Velodrome.

The incentives in this proposal are to be valid until further revaluation from implementation.

## Test Cases

N/A

## Implementation

TBD

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
