
| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-192 |Launch Speed Markets on Solana mainnet | Draft | alex81sg |Launch Thales Speed Markets on Solana mainnet |  | 2023-12-11
 
## Simple Summary
Launch `SpeedMarketsAMM` on Solana. 

## Abstract
Speed Markets has been proving to be a profitable feature for THALES but volume and users have been stale in recent weeks.
Over the course of Q4 2023, transaction fees have seen a material spike on EVM chains where Speed Markets is deployed (Base, Optimism, Arbitrum). 

At times, such fees can reach the $1.50-$2.50 range, which can be off putting to new users and existing users, especially for the most "casual" traders who spend less than $30/trade. It is reasonable to believe that as the bear market comes to an end, transaction fee will only continue increasing, which will severely hinder adoption.

Polygon does not always represent a viable alternative as during congested times transactions on Speed Markets time out or fail.

While EIP-4844 is in the works and is expected to dramatically reduce gas fees, timing for implementation is uncertain.

## Motivation
A deployment on Solana will bring the following benefits:
* Transaction fees, even during congested time windows, are usually fractions of pennies
* Transactions are instantaneous, as TPS is significantly higher than any EVM
* Deploying Speed Markets on Solana will provide access to a potential new user base of non-EVM users: active addresses on Solana have been surpassing Base, Arbitrum and Optimism combined in the past 6 months (data is understated as EVM may not be unique addresses). (source https://defillama.com/compare?chains=Optimism&chains=Arbitrum&chains=Solana&chains=Base&chains=Polygon&tvl=false&addresses=true&txs=false)
* The Solana ecosystem lacks protocols offering short-term binomial options such as Speed Markets

## Specification
This TIP entails the Thales Protocol DAO to deploy the following contracts and their supporting infrastructure on Solana mainnet network with timelines under the pDAO discretion:  
- `SpeedMarketsAMM`
  
For MVP, consider the following:
* Only use USDC as collateral
* Support Phantom and Solflare wallets

The SpeedMarketsAMM will be funded by treasury initially for POC phase and can move towards external LPing like others AMM once battle-tested.

## Rationale
While Solana experienced outages in the past, subsequent improvements to the chain seem to have had a good impact. The last outage occurred over 9 months ago (source https://status.solana.com/uptime) and has since proved to be able to withstand network congestions. 

TVL on Solana has increased over 300% in the past 6 months (source https://defillama.com/chain/Solana), showing that the ecosystem is primed for the bull market.

As user base and volume expansion shoul be key focus for any protocol, access to liquidity in a thriving ecosystem such as Solana could represent a great opportunity for Thales.

## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
