| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-121 | Solution for refunding SafeBox fee to cancelled positions | Draft | Padzank (@padzank) | Solution for refunding SafeBox fee to cancelled positions | https://discord.gg/rPpPcMXSeU | 2023-01-26


## Simple Summary
 
Solution for refunding SafeBox fee to cancelled positions so people claiming back their buy-ins can return 100% of their `BuyIn` instead of `Buy-In - SafeBox` which is the case with current architecture.

## Abstract

To date, when a position is `cancelled` on Overtime, users are able to claim back their Buy-In but with SafeBox fee subtracted, which is currently taking up 3% of the BuyIn amount. This TIP proposes to develop a new contract that holds sUSD funds that are used exclusively in adding `currentSafeBoxFee %` on top of user refund transactions.
 
## Motivation
 
On-chain architecture of Overtime Markets is such that whenever a certain market is cancelled, users are able to reclaim their Buy-In. Since the SafeBox fee is subtracted in the transaction of purchasing the position, reclaims of cancelled markets are reduced by the amount of SafeBox fee meaning that users lose funds on cancellations. This was not an issue when cancellations were rare and negligible, but with expansion of Overtime's offering and new position types that entail frequent cancellations, negative impact on UX needs to be mitigated and allow people to reclaim the full Buy-In amount.


## Specification


This proposal entails the Thales Protocol DAO to deploy a new smart contract that will act as a sUSD pool with the specific job of adding +`100/(100-SafeBoxFee)`% on top of all claims of cancelled positions.


## Variables

n/a
 
## Implementation


n/a


## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.