
| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-182 | Direct revenue share to stakers | drafr | Danijel | Start distributing SB fees directly to stakers|  | 2023-11-08
 
## Simple Summary
This TIP proposes significant changes to THALES tokenomics.  
Safe Box fees will no longer be used for buyback and burn but rather be directly distributed to stakers.  
Staking inflation is to be reduced from 105k a week to 40k a week.

## Motivation

The protocol is currently spending $2,400 per day for buyback and burn. This makes for $16,800 spent per week, $72,000 a month and $876,000 a year.  
At current THALES price this makes for 8,000 THALES a day, 56,000 THALES a week, 240,000 THALES a month, and 2,920,000 a year, or 3% of total supply per year.  

THALES has a fixed supply od 100 million. 2.5 million has already been burned to date.  
Per initial tokenomics, staking and gamified staking and LP incentives were planned for 4 years as means toward fair distribution to most aligned users. With this in mind, we aimed to use protocol revenue for buyback and burn, this increasing the final share of all aligned users during the distribution phase. If 30% of circulating supply would have been burned in those 4 years, the share of a user who has been staking and holding throughout that duration would have been increased 300% due to autocompounding of staking rewards.  

Latest community and market sentiment show us that this approach is not currently appreciated. While the burn feels very tangible, criticisms rise about the emissions being higher than the amount of tokens bought back.  

Following that feedback, I believe the best course for the DAO at this point is to start direct fees distribution to stakers and reduce token inflation.  

At $15 market cap, the $876k a year makes for ***5.84% APR.*** This is if all THALEA circulating would be staked, which isn't realustically the case. At estimated 30m THALES staked, the APR is close to ***10%*** which is considered to be a very good return in any industry.  

The Safe Box fees have been treding up last few months, thus I believe the rates above woukd be maintainable, with upside potential due to upcoming product improvements and account abstraction implementation.  


## Specification
Distribute all accrued Safe Box fees in a staking round to stakers.
Reduce staking inflation from 105k to 40k, 50% of that going as guarantes rewards, and 50% as bonus rewards per gamified staking leaderboard.  
Staking rewards will be split per chains using CCIP in near future (subject to separate TIP).  
Until CCIP implementation is fully ready, protocol DAO will manage rewards as follows: 
- Optimism 20k THALES
- Arbitrum 10k THALES
- Base 10k THALES

Staking rewards are to be reduced by 0.5% every staking round per previously votes in TIP.

Safe box fees will also be distibuted to stakers using CCIP once ready and voted in. Until then, the SB fees will be distributed as accrued on the given chain, with Protocol DAO using existing Safe Box funds to boostrap the new program per current buyback rates. ($1200 a day Optimism, $600 Arbitrum and Base).  

For smaller stakers, and due to changes in rewards structure, there might be rounds where claiming does dont justify gas costs. To offset this, ***I propose increasing the staking round length to 2 weeks.***

## Disclaimer
This proposal is early draft and submitted with intention to be discussed and finalized based on community feedback. Co-authors are welcomed.

## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
