| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-130 | Add Enetpulse as a data provider to Overtime| Draft |  (@coathales) | Add New Enetpulse node to support new Sports on Overtime|  | 2023-02-23

## Simple Summary
This tip entitles Thales protocol to leverage [Enetpulse's](https://enetpulse.com) Chainlink node to Overtime and support new sports.

## Motivation
Overtime aims to constantly increase the supply of new sports and markets. After talks with Enetpulse team and tesing Enetpulse Sports Data provider we propose using it on Overtime. Enetpulse has a very large variaty of sports so there is huge potential here to increase Overtime's offering. However, as with everything so far, we want to start iteratively, add Tennis first, monitor its performance for a while and then consider more sports to add.

Adding more feeds and data providers also improves the decentralization and diversification aspect of Overtime.  This node would ensure we no longer have a single point of failure dependancy, but also allow us to consider building aggregation methods to validate results of markets in the future.


## Specification
Enetpulse supports hundreds of sports and leagues, even esports. It also supports odds for various exotic markets types on sports already offered on Overtime, such as soccer (e.g. result at halftime).  
We plan to start with a Tennis ATP Masters and Grand Slams and monitor the "sharpness" of odds and general stability of the node. We were happy with what we have seen during testing.   
This addition does not require contract changes on our end, all the work is done on the node adapter side to make sure the data fits into the formats Overtime expects. The changes would be adding the new node address, new supported sport IDs and caps per sport, which will start low and grow iteratively as we gain more confidence with the new data.  

[Enetpulse eAPI docs](https://eclient.enetpulse.com/documentation/eapi)

[Sports and Odds coverage](https://eclient.enetpulse.com/coverage/odds/sport/1/odds_provider/MTU0)  

[Node](https://market.link/nodes/Enetpulse/integrations)

This TIP entitles Protocol DAO to utilize other available market types and sports from Enetpulse if there is community interest for those and protocol DAO finds those safe to add.


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
