
| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-156 |Launch Thales Products on Base Chain | Draft | fhd |Launch Thales Products on Base Chain |  | 2022-07-13
 
## Simple Summary
Launch Thales AMM (in/out and ranged markets), Overtime, Speed Markets (if ready) on Base Chain. Vaults can wait. Also allow for bridging of the THALES token to Base. The main collateral to be used should be USDC, which will likely be Bridged USDC.

Thales Staking should be allowed, and the rewards should be the same as those on Arbitrum. There should also be rewards set for providing liquidity, determined by pDao, most likely to a dex such as Aerodrome.  

Stakers should also be able to provide liquidity for all AMM's on launch: Thales AMM, OT AMM, and Parlay AMM. The treasury should seed the initial round, and stakers's liquidity should be utilized in the next round.

It is important that users are able to buy Thales, stake Thales, and get immediate utility from Thales through the AMM's, all on base chain. Not many will want to bridge back to Optimism in order to stake and provide liquidity, they should be able to do it on Base from day one.

Refferal system should be in place, as those with a first impression to Thales should have a reason to share it.


## Motivation
Base chain will have many users due to airdrop speculation, as well as just being new overall. Base chain will attract many users if we are well positioned when Base Chain mainnet goes live for the public.
## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
