| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-116 | Utilize Celer inter-messaging protocol to enable Overtime on mainnet| Draft | Danijel (@danthales) |   Utilize Celer inter-messaging protocl to enable Overtime on mainnet| https://discord.gg/thales | 2022-12-17
 
## Simple Summary
Leverage Celer's inter-messaging protocol to enable users on L1 mainnet to buy positions on Optimism Overtime. 
 
## Motivation

Overtime uses very complex contracts to enable decentralized sport markets, specially with regards to parlays. The gas costs needed for computation would never make sense on L1.  
However, I am certain that there is a plethora of users that would be happy to use such a protocol if it was made available on mainnet at affordable transaction costs.  

The problem laid our above is one that is being tackled by protocols offering cross-chain messaging communication. Thales CCs have reviewed a few of those and believer Celer's implementation is the most mature one at this point.  

By using Celer's IM, a user would express intent to buy an Overtime position on L1, upon which his collateral will be bridged via Celer's bridge to Optimism alongside a message on how he wants those funds to be utilized. Our contract would receive that message, perform the purchase and relay success message back. In case of failure, the collateral is bridged back to the user.
    
## Specification
Detailed overview of the Celer IM framework is available at https://im-docs.celer.network/developer/celer-im-overview.  

Thales DAO will deploy a receiver contract on L1 and an adapter contract on L2 which serve to sign/parse these messages and control the collateral movement from the L1 user to the Overtime AMM contract on L2. It will also send any user winnings from L2 to L1. 

This is an early draft and more details will be added as the implementation matures.

## Implementation  
https://github.com/thales-markets/contracts/tree/interMessaging
 
## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.

