| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-216 |  Streamline and Refocus Thales Staking | Draft | stake_stake | Streamline and Refocus Thales Staking  | https://discord.gg/thales | 2024-05-20


## Simple Summary

A series of changes that aims to streamline and refocus the Thales staking program.

## Abstract

This TIP outlines a cohesive plan combining proposals 1, 2, and 6 to streamline and refocus the Thales staking program. It proposes extending the cooldown period to at least 20 days and implementing a 1-2 day unstaking window following the cooldown. These changes aim to discourage passive holding and encourage active participation from stakers. Furthermore, this proposal suggests replacing the existing vesting escrow system with automatic restaking of rewards. This approach subjects rewards to existing staking mechanisms, effectively discouraging short-term withdrawals without needing a separate escrow system.  

## Motivation  

The proposed enhancements to the Thales staking framework aim to streamline the rewards process and reinforce incentives for long-term engagement, while promoting active community participation. The introduction of an unstaking window actively deters passive holding and compels users to be deliberate and engaged with their interactions in Thales's rewards program. By extending the cooldown period, we can further simplify the system by eliminating the separate escrow system for vesting rewards. Instead, rewards will be automatically re-staked and subjected to the new cooldown and unstaking protocols before they can be withdrawn. This integrated approach not only simplifies the user experience but also enhances the protocol's manageability and aligns stakers’ activities with the long-term stability and prosperity of the Thales ecosystem.

## Specification 

Determine a new cooldown period of at least 20 days for unstaking Thales. Upon agreement, this extended cooldown duration will be implemented to replace the current 7-day period (see proposal 1).

Implement a post-cooldown unstaking window. Users will be permitted to unstake their tokens only after the cooldown period has elapsed (time t) and during the unstaking window (from t to t + unstaking window duration). Should this window expire (post t + unstaking window), users will only be allowed to either re-stake their tokens or initiate another cooldown period (see proposal 2).

Deprecate the rewards vesting contract and implement automatic restaking for claimed Thales rewards. Upon claiming, rewards will be immediately and compulsorily re-staked on behalf of the reward recipient (see proposal 6).

## Implementation

To be discussed with engineers upon approval

## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
