| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-213 | Introduce a Post-Cooldown Unstake Window for THALES/WETH LP | Draft | stake_stake |Introduce a Post-Cooldown Unstake Window for THALES/WETH LP  | https://discord.gg/thales | 2024-05-20


## Simple Summary

Introduce a 2 day unstaking window following the cooldown period proposed in proposal 3. for THALES/WETH LP staking.

## Abstract

This TIP proposes a mandatory unstaking window after the cooldown period proposed in proposal 3 for THALES/WETH LP staking. Stakers will have 2 days to withdraw their positions; failing to do so within this window will require them to either re-stake their position or initiate another cooldown period. A shorter window of 1 day should also be considered.
## Motivation  

In conjunction with the cooldown period in proposal 3, an unstaking window would compel LPers to make deliberate and timely decisions regarding their positions to qualify for protocol incentives. An unstaking window serves to counteract the passivity that could arise with only a cooldown period, as it would still allow stakers to unstake at anytime post-cooldown. The suggested 2 day window draws inspiration from Aave's staking model (source: AAVE FAQ), but a shorter window of 1 day should also be considered.
## Specification 

Contingent on passage and implementation of proposal 3.

Establish a duration for the unstaking window. The existing THALES/WETH LP staking contract will require an upgrade to implement and enforce a fixed or adjustable unstaking window. 

Users will be permitted to unstake their positions only after the cooldown period has elapsed (time t) and during the unstaking window (from t to t + unstaking window duration). Should this window expire (post t + unstaking window), users will only be allowed to either re-stake their positions or initiate another cooldown period.

## Implementation

To be discussed with engineers upon approval

## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
