| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-196 | Participate in Blast Big Bang Competition to launch Thales products early on Blast Mainnet | Draft | Jayref | Launch SpeedMarkets on Blast | https://discord.gg/thales | 2024-01-25

## Simple Summary


This TIP proposes to launch Thales products on Blast Mainnet as part of the ‘Blast Big Bang Competition’ for a one-off opportunity to promote Thales’ products to a wide audience with incentives and promotion sponsored by Blast.
Applications to partake in the competition run from 17/01-17/02 2024.
This TIP calls for the deployment of SpeedMarkets contracts (regular and chained) on Blast due to their relatively simple deployment. Deployments of further contracts on Blast and their respective timelines will be under the discretion of Thales Protocol DAO.



## Abstract


This TIP proposes to deploy SpeedMarketsAMM contracts on Blast Mainnet to grow awareness, usage, and volume of Thales’ products by leveraging Blast’s momentum and impending grants to dApps.


## Motivation


Blast has 110k+ users (address with deposits), totaling $1.3bn+ in TVL. Half of Blast’s airdrop will be given to developers, incl. the dApps that win the ‘Big Ban Competition’. 
The ample data that grants/incentives drive usage of Thales’ products (as evident from OP and ARB rewards), so a similar outcome should be expected on Blast. Blast’s co-marketing of dApps is an added benefit. 
As an Ethereum Layer2 network, it is expected that the work needed to deploy contracts will be fairly lightweight. 
Pyth oracles will be present on Blast right from the start, which should further facilitate simple deployment.
For winners of the competition, Blast will offer office hours with core contributors, tech leads, investors and designers to help facilitate an effective launch.



## Specification

This TIP entails that the Thales Protocol DAO applies to participate in the Blast Big Bang Competition to launch Thales products early on Blast mainnet. 
This TIP only covers SpeedMarket contracts (regular and chained) explicitly while other product launches are left to Thales Protocol DAO’s discretion. 
The tokens available to take positions on in SpeedMarkets are left to Thales Protocol DAO’s discretion, though popularly traded assets (e.g. ETH and BTC) are expected, along with assets that are prominent on Blast (incl. Blast’s token).
The application process is left to the discretion of Thales Protocol DAO, which includes providing a 3-minute product video and stating which product category the application falls under (e.g. GambleFi).



## Copyright

N/A
