| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-163 |  THALES tokenomics overhaul | Draft | @Danijel |  Adapt THALES tokenomics  | https://discord.gg/rPpPcMXSeU | 2023-08-15


## Abstract

This TIP proposes a number of changes regarding THALES token as well as Thales DAO products with regards to tokenomics.  

## Motivation

Thales has always been mainly focused on delivering decentralized, innovative, easy-to-grasp products and with that in mind we kept building with high velocity and throughput for over 2.5 years.  
We delivered hundreds of smart contracts that were leveraged by tens of thousand of users driving dozens of millions of volume across our state-of-the-art dapps.  

Tokenomics have also pivoted throughout the protocol lifecycle but were mostly there to support the products. I feel this is a good time to take a more holistic reflection on the tokenomics and suggest changes that would better match the current state of the DAO, treasury, products and market towards long term scalability and success.  

The timing also coincides with the ending of linear vesting from the Strategic Raise round, as well with the release of Thales staking on multiple chains, which both drive the need for a general overhaul.   

The TIP will address several aspects in specification section
 
## Specification  

### State of treasury  

Non THALES assets:  
Stables: about $5.5 millions
ETH: about $1 million in current value 
SNX: $250k in current value   
Misc: A mixture of other assets and NFTs which are hard to all quantify, but aren't relevant for the topic here  

Thales Treasury is being managed with a conservative projected burn of 1.5m-2m per annum. The state of the treasury above demonstrates a **guaranteed runway of at least 3 years.*** In that aspect, Thales has always been one of the few DeFi project in this tier with such a stable and guaranteed runway.  

Treasury details can be seen using this zapper link [info](https://zapper.xyz/bundle/0xdac09f37e132d91b962f30e6ec40d2d08b82b0fa,0x489863b61C625a15C74FB4C21486baCb4A3937AB,0x4aAd282Dac74d79E41FD12833B1FAD7a18c778Ed,0x2902E381c9Caacd17d25a2e008db0a9a4687FDBF,0x1777c6d588fd931751762836811529c0073d6376?tab=wallet)  

Thales treasury currently holds about 50m THALES or half of the total supply which is considered non-circulating.  

Treasury could proactively burn a chunk of THALES that it does not need in foreseable future as THALES treasury was not intended to have more than 20m THALES per initial tokenomics (not including THALES staking rewards inflation). I am leaving this part open ended pending feedback discussion.

### Thales token inflation and staking  

Current weekly inflation comprises of:  
- Staking rewards = 120k THALES
- LP rewards = 50k THALES
- Strategic round unlock =  93k THALES 
- CC unlock = 100k  

For a total of 363k THALES a week or a total of ~ 18.9 million a year  

I am proposing the following change: 

Staking rewards:
* Optimism: 55k Total from 90k. Base rewards = 40k, bonus rewards = 15k  
* Arbitrum: 25k Total from 30. Base rewards = 18k, bonus rewards = 7k   
* Base chain: 20k Total. Base rewards = 15k, bonus rewards = 5k 

LP rewards remain unchanged. 

Strategic round is ending.  

Core contributors will proactively expand their vesting from 3 years to 3.5 years, which will bring the CC related inflation down 85k. Its important to note here that no CC tokens were ever or will ever be sold on open market. 

New inflation post this TIP: 
- Staking rewards = 100k THALES
- LP rewards = 50k THALES
- Strategic round unlock =  0
- CC unlock = 85k  

This TIP effectively adds staking to Base chain and is therefor metagovernance.

**For a total of 290k THALES a week or a total of ~ 15 million a year, a reduction of ~21%**  

###Gamified staking changes  

I am proposing the following changes to gamified staking mechanics:  
- max multiplier to 2x from 3x  
- LP multiplier to 0.1  
- Vaults multiplier to 0.2  

### AMM LPing  
I am proposing to change the allowance ratio to 1 sUSD/USDC per THALES staked from 5. This will serve to potentially increase TVL and attract more liquidity providers. It is psychologically easier to grasp and will present less of a barrier for new users.    

20% from profits of each positive LP round will be sent to SafeBox and used for BBB.   

I am also proposing a increase in SB fee to 2% across all products from 1%. The added fee is not intended to affect the UX wherever possible but rather shift some of the LP fees towards SB, as without the ungating friction, we can assume higher TVLs in our AMM LP pools.  

### BBB   

Buyback and burn will continue operating and serves as the revenue share mechanics for all token holders.  

***Buyback and burn will be deployed on Arbitrum and Base chain as well***, with exact buyback amounts and frequency hereon forward being decided by pdao and treasury managers dynamically (no new TIPs needed), and potentially bootstrapped from treasury funds (e.g. to kick-off Base chain BBB until SB fills up organically).  


## Implementation
N/A

## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
