| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-115 | Deploy Overtime to Arbitrum | Draft | Danijel (@danthales) |  Deploy Overtime to Arbitrum| https://discord.gg/thales | 2022-12-17
 
## Simple Summary

This TIP proposes a native deployment of Overtime smart contracts to Arbitrum One chain 
 
## Motivation

With Overtime being live for 7 months on Optimism and driving more than 15m notional volume, I believe we are now well positioned to expand to another chain.  
The Oracle rework proposed in [TIP-114](https://github.com/thales-markets/thales-improvement-proposals/blob/main/TIPs/TIP-114.md) has most of the previous concerns  mitigated (cost scalling, frontrunning at doubled liquidity).  

With Overtime adding spread, totals and double chance markets, its offering is now diverse enough to be on par with centralized sport books.   

The choice of Arbitrum is driven by the general momentum of that chain, but also due to the support Arbitrum has been giving and is willing to give Thales DAO and specifically Overtime should it deploy there.
    
## Specification 

Deploy all Overtime related contracts to Arbitrum. The collateral would be USDC until sUSD is available on Arbitrum. Curve onramp for other stable coins would not be initially supported.  

Specifically, the offer of the sports/leagues would be the same as Optimism, as well as the liquidity caps. Parlays [TIP-72](https://github.com/thales-markets/thales-improvement-proposals/blob/main/TIPs/TIP-72.md) would also be supported.

This TIP also enables pDAO to deploy [Vaults](https://github.com/thales-markets/thales-improvement-proposals/blob/main/TIPs/TIP-70.md), but likely not with the initial deployment.  

As for liqudity providing, it would be initially just treasury, in its current form [TIP-99](https://github.com/thales-markets/thales-improvement-proposals/blob/main/TIPs/TIP-99.md) requires THALES staking, which remains supported only on Optimism.

 
## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.

