| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-125 | Deploy Gamified Staking and co-incentivized Camelot THALES/WETH pool on Arbitrum | Draft | padzank (@padzank) | Deploy Gamified Staking and co-incentivized Camelot THALES/ETH pool on Arbitrum | https://discord.gg/thales | 2023-2-16


## Simple Summary


This TIP proposes to deploy an instance of Gamified Staking architecture and a co-incentivized Camelot THALES/ETH pool on Arbitrum.

## Abstract

The utility and the majority of liquidity of the THALES token was exclusive to the Optimism network to date. This TIP proposes to enter a co-operation with the Camelot DEX on Arbitrum in deploying a co-incentivized THALES/WETH pool with THALES rewards of 10,000 THALES a week with a condition that the LP position is locked for 1 month.

 With the expansion of Overtime product on Arbitrum, following the footsteps of thalesmarket.io, this TIP additionally proposes to launch an instance of Gamified Staking architecture on Arbitrum as well with the following parameters:

- Base Rewards: 20,000 THALES per week
- Gamified Staking Max Bonus Rewards: +50% on Base Rewards (theoretical maximum of 10,000 THALES per week)

With this ratio of rewards, THALES stakers on Arbitrum will be able to earn a potential +50% bonus rewards on top of their base staking rewards if they drove 5:1 ratio of USDC volume compared to amount of THALES Base Rewards claimable for the week in question. For example, if a user has 100 THALES claimable as staking rewards for the week, he will get additional 50 THALES on top of that week if he drove 500 USDC of Volume in the past 4 weeks across the Thales products on the Arbitrum Network.  

THALES stakers on Arbitrum will be recognized as voting power in the Thales Governance Structure.


## Motivation


As Arbitrum is a thriving ecosystem in the space, it is logical to increase liquidity and utility of the THALES token on the said network as well. Additionally, with TIP-99 (https://github.com/thales-markets/thales-improvement-proposals/blob/main/TIPs/TIP-99.md) under development, having THALES staking instance present on Arbitrum network will allow for the same mechanism to be adopted and hopefully allow for THALES token holders to provide collateral to the SportsAMM contract on Arbitrum.


## Specification


This TIP entails the Thales Protocol DAO to deploy the following suite of contracts adapted for the Arbitrum network:


- `StakingThales.sol`
- `EscrowThales.sol`
- `StakingThalesImplementation.sol`
- `EscrowThalesImplementation.sol`
- `ThalesStakingRewardsPool.sol`
- `ThalesStakingRewardsPoolImplementation.sol`


The rewards parameters to be set to:

- Base Rewards: 20,000 THALES per week
- Gamified Staking Max Bonus Rewards: +50% on Base Rewards (theoretical maximum of 10,000 THALES per week)
  
This TIP additionally entails the Thales Treasury DAO to facilitate the launch of THALES/WETH Nitro pool on Camelot DEX and deploy the following THALES rewards for LPs:  

- 10,000 THALES per week for LPs that lock their position for at least 1 month duration on the Camelot DEX.

## Variables

N/A

## Implementation
N/A
## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.