| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-124 | Pause Buyback and Burn Program for Thales Token| Draft | mrbreakout (@mrbreakout) | Pause Buyback and Burn | https://discord.gg/thales | 2023-2-15


## Abstract

Pause existing Thales governance token buyback and burn program

## Simple Summary

This TIP proposes to pause current buyback and burn program and restart again if certain price criteria met.

## Motivation

Currently, we use safebox fees to purchase 1500 sUSD worth of Thales Tokens per day and burn them later on.

Thales Token price almost did 3x price boost since we last updated BBB program.
Hence amount of tokens with same budget that could be purchased from market dropped significantly.

With current macro economic conditions (lower CPI and FED possibly pausing rates) and bullish protocol roadmap (consistent weekly protocol profits + OT Arbitrum implementation + OT vaults etc.) it seems like this bullish trend will not fade anytime soon and token price may increase even further.

In which case it makes more sense to halt BBB program and accumulate more safebox funds to be used else where when needed.


## Specification

if Buyback and Burn Program is active and market price of thales token goes above `BBBPricePoint` variable and conditions stay as is for more than 3 hours, then pause the BBB program.

if Buyback and Burn Program is not active and market price of thales token drops below `BBBPricePoint` variable and conditions stay as is for more than 3 hours, then restart the BBB program.

## Variables

`BBBPricePoint` - 0,60 sUSD

## Implementation


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.
