



| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-189 | Integrator Rebates Program | Draft | padzank | Integratos Rebates Program |  | 2023-11-28
 
## Simple Summary

This TIP proposes to rewards succesful Thales Protocol integrators with weekly THALES token rebates.

## Abstract


In recent months, Thales Protocol has started establishing itself as an easily integratable liquidity and market making layer for projects that want to build their own Sports Markets and Digital Options applications.  
 
This TIP proposes to further leverage this phenomena by allowing successfully integrated projects to apply for a rewards program. If the integrator passes the application, he will be eligible for ongoing rebates of `0.05` THALES tokens per each `1$` of volume driven through Thales Protocol via their application (e.g. 5,000 THALES awarded per $100,000 Volume Driven).


Volumes to be snapshotted on a weekly basis with rewards distributed weekly as well.  
 
Program to be trialed for 2 months and be capped at 50,000 THALES per month.


## Motivation


Benefits of having the entire protocol built completely on-chain with permissionless access to its contracts has just started coming to light recently for the Thales Protocol.  
 
This type of architecture allows for anyone to use the Thales Protocol contracts as the liquidity and market making layer for any Sports Markets and/or Digital Options application. With serving as the backend, Thales Protocol has successfully delegated the forward facing growth to the integrating projects. Their benefit is not having to worry about collateralization, data and market making risks and can focus completely on user acquisition.  
 
To further promote and solidify the Thales Protocol as the leading infrastructure for this specific type of markets, **awarding THALES tokens to projects in amounts approximately equal to total user fees paid** is a logical step forward. By having a program that awards teams of integrating projects to drive volume through the contracts will allow us to invite new integrators, motivate more aggressive growth of integrators and overall help steer every party in the right direction.  


Since the integrating projects mostly rely on Referral Fees as a sole incentive and motivation, receiving THALES tokens on top will add additional incentive alleway. Projects will have the option to stake the received THALES tokens and further amplify their benefits.  
 
The chosen amount of `0.05 THALES per $1 of Volume Driven by Affiliate Address` is sufficient to provide enough incentive for growth while also being safe from gaming the system due to it barely covering the total Fees and incurred Spread for traders.  
 
Hard Cap of 50,000 THALES per month ensures limit on the budget while also motivating integrators to push growth more aggressively or risk rebates being depleted by other integrators.




## Specification
 
  This TIP entails the Thales Treasury DAO to:  
- Prepare a budget of **100,000 THALES tokens for 2 months (50,000 THALES per month)** for Integrator Rebates Program
- Set up an **Application Form** for successfully integrated projects to apply with and prove to the Treasury DAO they have a working product that drives organic volume through the Thales Contracts.
- Take weekly snapshots of Total Volume Driven by Affiliate Address each `Wednesday 08:00 UTC`.
- Disperse the eligible THALES Rebates on the same weekly basis.
 


## Copyright
 
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.