| id | Title | Status | Author | Description | Discussions to | Created |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| TIP-186 | THALES tokenomics change temperature check | Draft | Danijel | Run a temperature check vote to get a DAO sentiment on the future of THALES tokenimics |discord.gg/thales  | 2023-11-16
 
## Simple Summary
This TIP enables THALES DAO to run a one-off temperature check vote to get the community's sentiment on potential large-impact tokenomics changes proposed via TIPs 182, 183 and 185.  

## Motivation  
Recent community feedback has indicated a desire for changes in THALES tokenomics towards a more tangible value add for the token itself.  
Current buyback and burn mechanics were criticized due to the fact that emissions are larger than the amount of THALES bought back.  

As a response to the critiscism, 3 TIPS were created.  

1. [TIP-182](https://github.com/thales-markets/thales-improvement-proposals/blob/main/TIPs/TIP-182.md) proposed a direct fees distribution model to THALES stakers, while reducing rewards from 105k THALES a week to 40k THALES a week. Buyback and burn would be stopped in favor of the direct distribution.  
2. [TIP-183](https://github.com/thales-markets/thales-improvement-proposals/blob/main/TIPs/TIP-183.md) proposes "HALVING" of THALES staking rewards from 105k THALES to 40k THALES a week, while continuing with the existing BBB mechanics and further reducing staking rewards by 0.5% a week per TIP-176, eventually leaning towards deflationary tokenimics.  
3. [TIP-185](https://github.com/thales-markets/thales-improvement-proposals/blob/main/TIPs/TIP-185.md) proposes an immediate stop to all THALES staking rewards, effectively starting deflationary tokenomics via BBB  
 

## Specification
Create a snapshot vote to get stakers sentiment on the 3 TIPS above. A fourth voting option will be added to indicate that no change is desired.  
The vote will leverage existing elections strategy, which gives all stakers voting power matching the amount of their THALES staked and allowing the to distribute that power across all options as they see fit.  


The vote result is not binding, but will help THALES DAO and council reach a decision by including the community's sentiment in their consideration.  


## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0.

